ADD: docs for io-chaos (#99)
pingcap/chaos-mesh: doc/io_chaos.md

# IO Chaos document

This document will help user to build IO Chaos experiments. 

> IO Chaos can help user simulate file system falults such as I/O delay, read/write errors, etc. It can inject delay and errno when you using syscall about IO like `open`, `read`, `write`. 

Reviewer: s/falults/faults/g

## Sample Config

Sample IO chaos ducument:

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: IoChaos
metadata:
  name: io-delay-example
  namespace: chaos-testing
spec:
  action: mixed
  mode: one
  duration: "400s"
  configName: "chaosfs-tikv"
  path: ""
  selector:
    namespaces:
      - tidb-cluster-demo
    labelSelectors:
      "app.kubernetes.io/component": "tikv"
  layer: "fs"
  percent: "50"
  delay: "1ms"
  scheduler:
    cron: "@every 10m"	
```

User can find and edit the template refer to [examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml](../examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml).

## Usage

> Assuming you are using `examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml`, to create a chaos experiment:

Reviewer: unify user and you

  If `Delay` is empty, the operator will generate a value for it randomly.
* **errno**: defines the error code that returned by IO action. It is a int32 string like `"32"`. This field should be set when you choose `errno`  or `mixed` action. If `errno` is empty, the operator will generate a error code for it randomly. You can set the `errno` refer to: https://www-numi.fnal.gov/offline_software/srt_public_context/WebDocs/Errors/unix_system_errors.html.
* **percent**: Percent defines the percentage of injection errors and provides a number from 0-100. The defualt value is `100`.
* **path**: defines the path of files for injecting I/O chaos action. It should be an regular expression for the path user want to inject errno or delay. If path is `""` or not defined, IO to all files will be injected.
* **methods**: defines the I/O methods for injecting I/O chaos action. It’s an array of string, which set the IO syscall like `open` `read` . You can see the [availiable methods](#availiable-methods) below.
* **addr**: defines the sidecar HTTP server address for sidecar container, like `":8080"`.

> * **configName**: defines the config name which used to inject pod. You can refer to [examples/tikv-configmap.yaml](../examples/tikv-configmap.yaml) to define your config.

Reviewer: invalid link

* **layer**: represents the layer of the I/O action. Supported value: `fs` , and default is `fs`.

## IO Chaos Availiable Actions

IO Chaos now support the actions below:

* **delay**: IO delay action. In this mode read/write IO operation will return error.

> * **errno**: IO errno action.You can specify the latency beore the IO operation will return. IO errno means your read/write IO operation will return error.

Reviewer: The Order is reverse and please fix some typos

* **mixed**: Both delay and errno actions.

### delay

If you are using delay mode, you may edit spec like:

```yaml
spec:
  action: delay
  delay: "1ms"
```

> If `delay` is not specified, it will be generate randomly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `delay` is not specified, it will be generate randomly on runtime.
```

### errno

```yaml
spec:

> 	action: errno

Reviewer 2: remove this

  errno: "32"
```

> If `errno` is not specified, it will be generate randomly. 

Reviewer: ditto

> # IO Chaos document

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# IO Chaos Document
```

This document will help user to build IO Chaos experiments. 

IO Chaos can help user simulate file system faults such as I/O delay, read/write errors, etc. It can inject delay and errno when user using syscall about IO like `open`, `read`, `write`. 

> ## Sample Config

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Sample config file
```

Sample IO chaos ducument:

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: IoChaos
metadata:
  name: io-delay-example
  namespace: chaos-testing
spec:
  action: mixed
  mode: one
  duration: "400s"
  configName: "chaosfs-tikv"
  path: ""
  selector:
    namespaces:
      - tidb-cluster-demo
    labelSelectors:
      "app.kubernetes.io/component": "tikv"
  layer: "fs"
  percent: "50"
  delay: "1ms"
  scheduler:
    cron: "@every 10m"	
```

User can find and edit the template refer to [examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml](../examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml).

## Usage

> ### Config

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configuration
```

#### Annotations

We use [Kubernetes annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) to  attach metadata about IO chaos to objects. In [examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml](../examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml), user can find metadata below.

```yaml
metadata:
  name: io-delay-example
  namespace: chaos-testing
```

> If you not attach annotation to namespace, it will modify the pod dynamically, and may restart the pod.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that if you do not attach an annotation to the namespace, the annotation will modify the pod dynamically, and may restart the pod.
```
For quick confirmation, does "it" refer to "the annotation" or "Chaos Operator"? @mapleFU

Author: Maybe not, I'll modify it later.

> #### Data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Data directory
```

> The data directory of the component should be a subdirectory of `PersistentVolumes`.

Reviewer 3: Of what component? You mean "Chaos Operator"? @mapleFU

Author: I'll add it.

> ### Run

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Create a chaos experiment
```

> Assuming user are using `examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml`, to create a chaos experiment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assume that you are using `examples/io-mixed-example.yaml`, you can run the following command to create a chaos experiment:
```

```bash

> kubectl apply -f examples/io-mixed-sample.yaml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f examples/io-mixed-example.yaml
```

```

> ## Spec Arguements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Spec arguments
```

> * **selector**: is used to select pods that are used to inject chaos action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **selector**: is used to select pods that are used to inject chaos actions.
```

> * **action**: action represents the chaos action about IO action, now the **delay**, **errno**,  **mixed** action is supported. User can go to [*IO Chaos Availiable Actions*](#io-chaos-availiable-actions) for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **action**: represents the IO chaos actions. Currently the **delay**, **errno**, and **mixed** actions are supported. You can go to [*IO chaos available actions*](#io-chaos-available-actions) for more details.
```

> * **mode**: Mode defines the mode to run chaos action. Supported mode: `one` / `all` / `fixed` / `fixed-percent` / `random-max-percent`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **mode**: defines the mode to run chaos actions. Supported mode: `one` / `all` / `fixed` / `fixed-percent` / `random-max-percent`.
```

> * **duration**: represents the duration of the chaos action. The duration is a possibly string with signed sequence of decimal numbers,  each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `”2h45m"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **duration**: represents the duration of a chaos action. The duration might be a string with the signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `”2h45m"`.
```

> * **delay**: defines the value of I/O chaos action delay. The duration is a possibly string with signed sequence of decimal numbers,  each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `”2h45m”`. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **delay**: defines the value of IO chaos action delay. The duration might be a string with the signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `”2h45m”`. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", and "h".
```

  If `Delay` is empty, the operator will generate a value for it randomly.

> * **errno**: defines the error code that returned by IO action. It is a int32 string like `"32"`. This field should be set when user choose `errno`  or `mixed` action. If `errno` is empty, the operator will generate a error code for it randomly. User can set the `errno` refer to: https://www-numi.fnal.gov/offline_software/srt_public_context/WebDocs/Errors/unix_system_errors.html.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **errno**: defines the error code that is returned by an IO action. It is an int32 string like `"32"`. This field need to be set when you choose an `errno` or `mixed` action. If `errno` is empty, the operator will randomly generate an error code for it. You can set the `errno` by referring to: https://www-numi.fnal.gov/offline_software/srt_public_context/WebDocs/Errors/unix_system_errors.html.
```

> * **percent**: Percent defines the percentage of injection errors and provides a number from 0-100. The defualt value is `100`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **percent**: defines the percentage of injection errors and provides a number from 0-100. The default value is `100`.
```

> * **path**: defines the path of files for injecting I/O chaos action. It should be an regular expression for the path user want to inject errno or delay. If path is `""` or not defined, IO to all files will be injected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **path**: defines the path of files for injecting I/O chaos actions. It should be a regular expression for the path you want to inject errno or delay. If the path is `""` or not defined, IO to all files will be injected.
```

> * **methods**: defines the I/O methods for injecting I/O chaos action. It’s an array of string, which set the IO syscall like `open` `read`. User can see the [availiable methods](#availiable-methods) below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **methods**: defines the I/O methods for injecting I/O chaos actions. It’s an array of string, which sets the IO syscalls such as `open` and `read`. See the [available methods](#available-methods) for more details.
```

> * **addr**: defines the sidecar HTTP server address for sidecar container, like `":8080"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **addr**: defines the sidecar HTTP server address for a sidecar container, such as `":8080"`.
```

> * **configName**: defines the config name which used to inject pod. User can refer to [examples/tikv-configmap.yaml](../../examples/tikv-configmap.yaml) to define user's config.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **configName**: defines the config name which is used to inject pods. You can refer to [examples/tikv-configmap.yaml](../../examples/tikv-configmap.yaml) to define your configuration.
```

> * **layer**: represents the layer of the I/O action. Supported value: `fs` , and default is `fs`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **layer**: represents the layer of the I/O action. Supported value: `fs` (by default).
```

> ## IO Chaos Availiable Actions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## IO chaos available actions
```

> IO Chaos now support the actions below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IO chaos currently supports the following actions:
```

> * **delay**: IO delay action. User can specify the latency before the IO operation will return.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **delay**: IO delay action. You can specify the latency before the IO operation returns a result.
```
Do I understand "the IO operation will return" correctly? Do you think my rewrite makes sense?

> * **errno**: IO errno action. In this mode read/write IO operation will return error.IO errno means user's read/write IO operations will return error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **errno**: IO errno action. In this mode, read/write IO operations will return an error.
```
I deleted the sentence because it seems to duplicate the previous sentence. How do you think?

* **mixed**: Both **delay** and **errno** actions.

### delay

> If user are using delay mode, user may edit spec like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are using the delay mode, you can edit spec as below:
```

```yaml
spec:
  action: delay
  delay: "1ms"
```

> If `delay` is not specified, it will be generate randomly on runtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `delay` is not specified, it will be generated randomly on runtime.
```

### errno

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

If you are using the errno mode, you can edit spec as below:

```
It is important for document readability to keep the related sections' structure consistent.

```yaml
spec:
  action: errno
  errno: "32"
```

> If `errno` is not specified, it will be generate randomly on runtime. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `errno` is not specified, it will be generated randomly on runtime. 
```

### mixed

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

If you are using the mixed mode, you can edit spec as below:

```

````yaml
spec:
  action: mixed
  delay: "1ms"
  errno: "32"
````

> It is mix of **delay** and **errno**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The mix mode defines the **delay** and **errno** actions in one spec.
```

> ## Availiable Methods

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Available methods
```

> Availiable methods are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Available methods are as below:
```

> # IO Chaos Document

Reviewer 2: remind users to make sure admission-webhooks is turned on, refer: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#experimenting-with-admission-webhooks

Author: I put it into config section, PTAL. @cwen0

IO chaos allows you to simulate file system faults such as I/O delay, read/write errors, etc. It can inject delay and errno when you use the I/O system calls such as `open`, `read` and `write`.

## Sample config file

Here is a sample YAML file of IO chaos:

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: IoChaos
metadata:
  name: io-delay-example
  namespace: chaos-testing
spec:
  action: mixed
  mode: one
  duration: "400s"
  configName: "chaosfs-tikv"
  path: ""
  selector:
    namespaces:
      - tidb-cluster-demo
    labelSelectors:
      "app.kubernetes.io/component": "tikv"
  layer: "fs"
  percent: "50"
  delay: "1ms"
  scheduler:
    cron: "@every 10m"	
```

For more sample files, see [examples/io-mixed-example.yaml](../examples/io-mixed-example.yaml). You can edit them as needed. 

## Usage

### Configuration

#### Annotations

We use [Kubernetes annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) to attach IO chaos metadata to objects. In [examples/io-mixed-example.yaml](../examples/io-mixed-example.yaml), you can find the metadata as below.

```yaml
metadata:
  name: io-delay-example
  namespace: chaos-testing
```

> Note that if you do not attach an annotation to the namespace,  the pod will be modified dynamically, and might be restarted.

Reviewer 2: what annotations can be set?

Author: In line 43-44, PTAL

#### Data directory

The data directory of the component of the pod should be a subdirectory of `PersistentVolumes`.

### Create a chaos experiment

Assume that you are using `examples/io-mixed-example.yaml`, you can run the following command to create a chaos experiment:

```bash
kubectl apply -f examples/io-mixed-example.yaml
```

## Spec arguments

* **selector**: is used to select pods that are used to inject chaos actions.

* **action**: represents the IO chaos actions. Currently the **delay**, **errno**, and **mixed** actions are supported. You can go to [*IO chaos available actions*](#io-chaos-available-actions) for more details.
* **mode**: defines the mode to run chaos actions. Supported mode: `one` / `all` / `fixed` / `fixed-percent` / `random-max-percent`.

> * **duration**: represents the duration of a chaos action. The duration might be a string with the signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `”2h45m"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **duration**: represents the duration of a chaos action. The duration might be a string with the signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `"2h45m"`.
```

> * **delay**: defines the value of IO chaos action delay. The duration might be a string with the signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `”2h45m”`. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", and "h".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **delay**: defines the value of IO chaos action delay. The duration might be a string with the signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as `"300ms"`, `"-1.5h"` or `"2h45m"`. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", and "h".
```

  If `Delay` is empty, the operator will generate a value for it randomly.

> * **errno**: defines the error code that is returned by an IO action. It is an int32 string like `"32"`. This field need to be set when you choose an `errno` or `mixed` action. If `errno` is empty, the operator will randomly generate an error code for it. You can set the `errno` by referring to: https://www-numi.fnal.gov/offline_software/srt_public_context/WebDocs/Errors/unix_system_errors.html.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **errno**: defines the error code that is returned by an IO action. It is an int32 string like `"32"`. This field need to be set when you choose an `errno` or `mixed` action. If `errno` is empty, the operator will randomly generate an error code for it. You can set the `errno` by referring to [Errors: Linux System Errors](https://www-numi.fnal.gov/offline_software/srt_public_context/WebDocs/Errors/unix_system_errors.html).
```

* **percent**: defines the percentage of injection errors and provides a number from 0-100. The default value is `100`.

> * **path**: defines the path of files for injecting I/O chaos actions. It should be a regular expression for the path you want to inject errno or delay. If the path is `""` or not defined, IO to all files will be injected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **path**: defines the path of files for injecting I/O chaos actions. It should be a regular expression for the path you want to inject errno or delay. If the path is `""` or not defined, I/O chaos actions will be injected into all files.
```
Please also unify the usage of "I/O" or "IO" in this document. "I/O" is recommended because it's a more standard term.

* **methods**: defines the I/O methods for injecting I/O chaos actions. It’s an array of string, which sets the IO syscalls such as `open` and `read`. See the [available methods](#available-methods) for more details.
* **addr**: defines the sidecar HTTP server address for a sidecar container, such as `":8080"`.

> * **configName**: defines the config name which is used to inject pods. You can refer to [examples/tikv-configmap.yaml](../../examples/tikv-configmap.yaml) to define your configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **configName**: defines the config name which is used to inject chaos action into pods. You can refer to [examples/tikv-configmap.yaml](../../examples/tikv-configmap.yaml) to define your configuration.
```

> * **configName**: defines the config name which is used to inject pods. You can refer to [examples/tikv-configmap.yaml](../../examples/tikv-configmap.yaml) to define your configuration.

Reviewer 2: how to modify this configmap file?

# IO Chaos document

This document will help user to build IO Chaos experiments. 

IO Chaos can help user simulate file system falults such as I/O delay, read/write errors, etc. It can inject delay and errno when you using syscall about IO like `open`, `read`, `write`. 

## Sample Config

Sample IO chaos ducument:

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: IoChaos
metadata:
  name: io-delay-example
  namespace: chaos-testing
spec:
  action: mixed
  mode: one
  duration: "400s"
  configName: "chaosfs-tikv"
  path: ""
  selector:
    namespaces:
      - tidb-cluster-demo
    labelSelectors:
      "app.kubernetes.io/component": "tikv"

>   layer: "fs"

Reviewer 2: explain this argument at the document.

Author: Done
